docs/docs/faq.md, before:

# Frequently Asked Questions

## How do I add a new environment variable?

To add a new environment variable, add it to your `.env` file. If you don't have a `.env` file, you can simply create 
it by running `cp .env.example .env`. Then, open the `.env` file and add your new environment variable.

You should add environment variables **before** building your docker containers. Or, if you have already built your
containers, you can run the following to rebuild the server and worker containers. 

```bash
docker-compose up --build -d --no-deps lexyserver lexyworker
```

## Why is Lexy written in Python? Isn't Python too slow?

We chose Python because it is a language that is easy to read and write, is popular in the data and machine learning
communities, and is great for orchestration of complex systems. It's not yet clear what the biggest bottlenecks will be
in terms of performance, but we are confident that we can optimize performance using C/C++ bindings. And if that doesn't
work we'll just RIIR.

## I think the name Lexy is super cool!

We agree with you!

Commit message:

Example for code search (#53)
# What

This is a WIP example for code search.

# Why

Allows others to start using the same example to work off of.

# Test plan

- [ ] Run `pytest sdk-python`
- [ ] Run `examples/tests.ipynb` and verify that there are no errors
- [ ] Run `examples/tutorial.ipynb` and verify that the tutorial works
as expected
- [ ] Run `examples/images.ipynb` and verify that the tutorial works as
expected

docs/docs/faq.md, after:

# Frequently Asked Questions

## How do I add a new environment variable?

To add a new environment variable, add it to your `.env` file. If you don't have a `.env` file, you can simply create 
it by copying the file `.env.example`. 

```bash
cp -n .env.example .env
```

Then open the `.env` file and add your new environment variable.

```shell title=".env" hl_lines="4"
# Example .env file
OPENAI_API_KEY=<secret_api_key>
S3_BUCKET=<s3_bucket_name>
NEW_ENV_VAR=<new_env_var_value>
```


You should add environment variables **before** building your docker containers. Or if you have already built your
containers, you can run the following to rebuild the server and worker containers. 

```bash
docker-compose up --build -d --no-deps lexyserver lexyworker
```

Verify that your new environment variable has been added to the server and worker containers.

```bash
docker exec lexy-server env | grep -i NEW_ENV_VAR
docker exec lexy-celeryworker env | grep -i NEW_ENV_VAR
```

## Why is Lexy written in Python? Isn't Python slow?

Python is (1) easy to read and write, (2) extremely popular in the data and machine learning communities, and (3) great 
for orchestration of complex systems. It's not yet clear to us what the biggest bottlenecks will be, but we 
are confident that we can optimize performance using C/C++ bindings. And if that doesn't work, we'll just RIIR.

## I think the name Lexy is super cool.

We agree with you! The name comes from "lexicon," defined as the vocabulary of a person, language, or branch of
knowledge.
