docs/docs/index.md, before:

---
hide:
    - toc
---

# Welcome to Lexy

Lexy is a data framework for building AI-powered applications.

## Installation

Follow the steps in the [installation guide](installation.md) to install Lexy.

## Quickstart

See the [quickstart guide](quickstart.md) to get started with Lexy.

## Tutorials

Review the following tutorials for a step-by-step guide on how to use Lexy.

- [Getting started](tutorials/index.md) for an overview of Lexy's core concepts.
- [Basic RAG using Lexy](tutorials/basic-rag.md) for how to implement Retrieval Augmented Generation.
- [Multimodal image search](tutorials/multimodal-image-search.md) for how to use Lexy to build a multimodal search engine.
- [Custom transformers](tutorials/custom-transformers.md) for using your own functions as transformers.
- [Document filters](tutorials/document-filters.md) shows how to build pipelines for different types of documents.

## Reference

See the [API reference](reference/rest-api/index.md) for detailed documentation on Lexy's API.

The [Python SDK](reference/lexy_py/client.md) is a Python client for Lexy, with detailed documentation.

## Contributing

Check out the [developer notes](contributing.md) for guidance on contributing to the Lexy codebase.

## FAQs

Any questions? Check out the [FAQ](faq.md) for answers to common questions.

If you can't find the answer you're looking for, please [contact us](mailto:hello@lexy.ai).

Commit message:

Update docs (#115)
Minor updates to documentation

docs/docs/index.md, after:

---
hide:
    - toc
---

# Welcome to Lexy

Lexy is a data platform for building AI-powered applications. You can use Lexy to:

- Build Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) applications.
- Provide relevant context for AI agents.
- Add long-term memory to chat-based applications.
- Extract structured data from unstructured documents.

## Features

- REST API for storing, embedding, and retrieving documents.
- Pipeline-based document processing using your own Python functions.
- Change data capture for real-time updates.
- Secure file storage using Amazon S3 or Google Cloud Storage.
- Open source Apache 2.0 license.

## Installation

Follow the steps in the [installation guide](installation.md) to install Lexy.

## Quickstart

See the [quickstart guide](quickstart.md) to get started with Lexy.

## Tutorials

Review the following tutorials for a step-by-step guide on how to use Lexy.

- [Getting started](tutorials/index.md) for an overview of Lexy's core concepts.
- [Basic RAG using Lexy](tutorials/basic-rag.md) for how to implement Retrieval Augmented Generation.
- [Multimodal image search](tutorials/multimodal-image-search.md) for how to use Lexy to build a multimodal search engine.
- [Custom transformers](tutorials/custom-transformers.md) for using your own functions as transformers.
- [Document filters](tutorials/document-filters.md) shows how to build pipelines for different types of documents.
- [Structured data extraction](tutorials/structured-data-extraction.md) for how to extract structured data from documents.

## Reference

See the [API reference](reference/rest-api/index.md) for detailed documentation on Lexy's API.

The [Python SDK](reference/lexy_py/client.md) is a Python client for Lexy, with detailed documentation.

## Contributing

Check out the [developer notes](contributing.md) for guidance on contributing to the Lexy codebase.

## FAQs

Any questions? Check out the [FAQ](faq.md) for answers to common questions.

If you can't find the answer you're looking for, please [contact us](mailto:hello@lexy.ai).
