docs/docs/quickstart.md, before:

# Quickstart

Lexy is a data framework for building AI-powered applications. It provides a simple API to store and retrieve documents, 
and to apply transformations to those documents.

Follow the instructions in the [installation guide](installation.md) to install Lexy.

## Concepts

Lexy has the following core concepts:

- **Collections**: A collection is a group of documents.
- **Documents**: A document consists of content (text, image, file, etc.) and metadata.
- **Transformers**: A transformer is a function that takes a document as input and returns a transformed version of that document.
- **Indexes**: An index is used to store and retrieve the output of transformed documents, including embeddings.
- **Bindings**: A binding is a connection between a collection, a transformer, and an index. When a document is added to a collection, 
  the transformer is applied to the document, and the result is stored in the index.

For an overview of Lexy's core concepts, see the [Getting started](tutorials/index.md) tutorial.

## Building with Lexy

### Project structure

Here's a sample directory structure for a project using Lexy:

```shell
my-project
├── mypkg
│   └── src
├── pipelines  # Lexy pipelines (1)
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── requirements.txt  # (2)!
│   ├── my_custom_transformer.py
│   ├── my_first_pipeline.py
│   ├── parse_code_comments.py
│   └── pdf_embeddings.py
├── .env
└── docker-compose.yml
```

1.  The modules in this directory are imported and run by the `lexyworker` container.
2.  Extra requirements for your pipelines or custom transformers. These packages will be installed in the `lexyworker` 
    container.


### Pipelines

Lexy uses a `pipelines` directory to load your pipelines and custom transformers. This directory 
defaults to `./pipelines` but can be set using the `PIPELINE_DIR` environment variable in your `.env` file.

You can install custom packages required for your pipelines or transformers in `requirements.txt`. 
These packages will be installed in the `lexyworker` container.

???+ note "Example `pipelines` directory"

    === "parse_code_comments.py"
    
        ```python
        import tree_sitter_languages

        from lexy.models.document import Document
        from lexy.transformers import lexy_transformer
        
        
        def parse_code(content):
            # just an example - replace with your own logic
            return [
                {'text': 'my comment', 'line_no': 1, 'filename': 'example.py'}
            ]
        
        
        @lexy_transformer(name='code.extract_comments.v1')  
        def get_comments(doc: Document) -> list[dict]:
            comments = []
            for c in parse_code(doc.content):
                comments.append({
                    'comment_text': c['text'],
                    'comment_meta': {
                        'line_no': c['line_no'],
                        'filename': c['filename']
                    }
                })
            return comments
        ```

    === "pdf_embeddings.py"
    
        ```python
        from io import BytesIO
        
        import httpx
        import pypdf
        
        from lexy.models.document import Document
        from lexy.transformers import lexy_transformer
        from lexy.transformers.embeddings import text_embeddings
        
        
        def pdf_reader_from_url(url: str) -> pypdf.PdfReader:
            response = httpx.get(url)
            return pypdf.PdfReader(BytesIO(response.content))
        
        
        @lexy_transformer(name='pdf.embed_pages.text_only')
        def embed_pdf_pages(doc: Document) -> list[dict]:
        
            pdf = pdf_reader_from_url(doc.object_url)
            pages = []
        
            for page_num, page in enumerate(pdf.pages):
                page_text = page.extract_text()
                images = [im.name for im in page.images]
                p = {
                    'page_text': page_text,
                    'page_text_embedding': text_embeddings(page_text),
                    'page_meta': {
                        'page_num': page_num,
                        'page_text_length': len(page_text),
                        'images': images,
                        'n_images': len(images)
                    }
                }
                pages.append(p)
        
            return pages
        ```

    === "requirements.txt"
    
        ```plaintext
        # Extra package requirements for pipelines
        pypdf
        tree-sitter-languages
        ```



### Configuration

You can build and run Lexy using Docker Compose.

Here is an example of `docker-compose.yml` and a `.env` file for a project using Lexy with Google Cloud Storage as the 
default storage service.

The example below uses the `latest` tag, which you can replace with a specific version if needed (e.g., `v0.0.2`). 
Images are built for each [release](https://github.com/lexy-ai/lexy/releases) and hosted on GitHub Container Registry. 
Available packages are [here](https://github.com/orgs/lexy-ai/packages?repo_name=lexy).


???+ note "Example configuration using Google Cloud Storage"

    === "docker-compose.yml"
    
        ```yaml
        name: my-project
        
        services:
          lexyserver:
            image: ghcr.io/lexy-ai/lexy/lx-server:latest
            hostname: lexy_server
            depends_on:
              - db_postgres
            ports:
              - "9900:9900"
            env_file:
              - .env
            environment:
              - OPENAI_API_KEY=${OPENAI_API_KEY}
              - PIPELINE_DIR=/home/app/pipelines
              - GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/run/secrets/gcp_credentials
            volumes:
              - ${PIPELINE_DIR:-./pipelines}:/home/app/pipelines
            secrets:
              - gcp_credentials
        
          lexyworker:
            image: ghcr.io/lexy-ai/lexy/lx-worker:latest
            hostname: celeryworker
            depends_on:
              - lexyserver
              - queue
            restart: always
            env_file:
              - .env
            environment:
              - PIPELINE_DIR=/home/app/pipelines
            volumes:
              - ${PIPELINE_DIR:-./pipelines}:/home/app/pipelines
        
          db_postgres:
            image: ghcr.io/lexy-ai/lexy/lx-postgres:latest
            restart: always
            ports:
              - "5432:5432"
            volumes:
              - db-postgres:/var/lib/postgresql/data
        
          queue:
            image: rabbitmq:3.9.10-management
            restart: always
            ports:
              - "5672:5672"
              - "15672:15672"
        
          flower:
            image: mher/flower
            restart: always
            ports:
              - "5556:5555"
            command: celery --broker=amqp://guest:guest@queue:5672// flower -A lexy.main.celery --broker_api=http://guest:guest@queue:15672/api/vhost
            depends_on:
              - lexyserver
              - lexyworker
              - queue
            environment:
              - CELERY_BROKER_URL=amqp://guest:guest@queue:5672//
              - CELERY_RESULT_BACKEND=db+postgresql://postgres:postgres@db_postgres/lexy
              - CELERY_BROKER_API_URL=http://guest:guest@queue:15672/api/vhost
              - C_FORCE_ROOT=true
              - FLOWER_UNAUTHENTICATED_API=true
        
        volumes:
          db-postgres:
            driver: local
        
        secrets:
          gcp_credentials:
            file: ${GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS:-/dev/null}
        
        networks:
          default:
            name: lexy-net
            external: false
        ```

    === ".env"
    
        ```shell
        # Google Cloud Storage
        DEFAULT_STORAGE_SERVICE=gcs
        DEFAULT_STORAGE_BUCKET=your_gcs_bucket_name
        GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/path/to/your/service-account-credentials.json

        # OpenAI API key
        OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key
        ```


### Testing

You can run tests inside the `lexyserver` container to ensure that Lexy is working as expected. 

In the example project above, you first bring up your project's stack using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

Then use the following commands to run tests inside the running `lexyserver` container:

```bash 
docker compose exec -it lexyserver pytest lexy_tests
docker compose exec -it lexyserver pytest sdk-python
```

Or to run tests in a single command:

```bash
docker compose exec -it lexyserver sh -c "pytest lexy_tests && pytest sdk-python"
```

If instead you want to run tests inside a new `lexyserver` container, use the following command:

```bash
docker compose run -it --rm --no-deps lexyserver sh -c "pytest lexy_tests && pytest sdk-python"
```

## Lexy API

The Lexy server is a RESTful API that provides endpoints for storing and retrieving documents, applying 
transformations, and managing collections and indexes.

The API is documented using Swagger. You can access the Swagger UI at `http://localhost:9900/docs` when the Lexy 
server is running.

![lexy-swagger.png](assets%2Fimages%2Flexy-swagger.png)

## Python SDK

`lexy-py` is the Python SDK used to interact with the Lexy server.

The SDK provides a `LexyClient` class that you can use to interact with the Lexy server. Here's an example of how to list
collections using the Python SDK:

```python
from lexy_py import LexyClient

lx = LexyClient()
lx.list_collections()
```

For more information on how to use the Python SDK, see the [Python SDK reference](reference/lexy_py/client.md).

Commit message:

Add CLI with init command

docs/docs/quickstart.md, after:

# Quickstart

Lexy is a data framework for building AI-powered applications. It provides a simple API to store and retrieve documents, 
and to apply transformations to those documents.

Follow the instructions in the [installation guide](installation.md) to install Lexy.

## Concepts

Lexy has the following core concepts:

- **Collections**: A collection is a group of documents.
- **Documents**: A document consists of content (text, image, file, etc.) and metadata.
- **Transformers**: A transformer is a function that takes a document as input and returns a transformed version of that document.
- **Indexes**: An index is used to store and retrieve the output of transformed documents, including embeddings.
- **Bindings**: A binding is a connection between a collection, a transformer, and an index. When a document is added to a collection, 
  the transformer is applied to the document, and the result is stored in the index.

For an overview of Lexy's core concepts, see the [Getting started](tutorials/index.md) tutorial.

## Building with Lexy

### Project structure

Here's a sample directory structure for a project using Lexy:

```shell
my-project
├── mypkg
│   └── src
├── pipelines  # Lexy pipelines (1)
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── requirements.txt  # (2)!
│   ├── my_custom_transformer.py
│   ├── my_first_pipeline.py
│   ├── parse_code_comments.py
│   └── pdf_embeddings.py
├── .env
└── docker-compose.yml
```

1.  The modules in this directory are imported and run by the `lexyworker` container.
2.  Extra requirements for your pipelines or custom transformers. These packages will be installed in the `lexyworker` 
    container.


### Pipelines

Lexy uses a `pipelines` directory to load your pipelines and custom transformers. This directory 
defaults to `./pipelines` but can be set using the `PIPELINE_DIR` environment variable in your `.env` file.

You can install custom packages required for your pipelines or transformers in `requirements.txt`. 
These packages will be installed in the `lexyworker` container.

???+ note "Example `pipelines` directory"

    === "parse_code_comments.py"
    
        ```python
        import tree_sitter_languages

        from lexy.models.document import Document
        from lexy.transformers import lexy_transformer
        
        
        def parse_code(content):
            # just an example - replace with your own logic
            return [
                {'text': 'my comment', 'line_no': 1, 'filename': 'example.py'}
            ]
        
        
        @lexy_transformer(name='code.extract_comments.v1')  
        def get_comments(doc: Document) -> list[dict]:
            comments = []
            for c in parse_code(doc.content):
                comments.append({
                    'comment_text': c['text'],
                    'comment_meta': {
                        'line_no': c['line_no'],
                        'filename': c['filename']
                    }
                })
            return comments
        ```

    === "pdf_embeddings.py"
    
        ```python
        from io import BytesIO
        
        import httpx
        import pypdf
        
        from lexy.models.document import Document
        from lexy.transformers import lexy_transformer
        from lexy.transformers.embeddings import text_embeddings
        
        
        def pdf_reader_from_url(url: str) -> pypdf.PdfReader:
            response = httpx.get(url)
            return pypdf.PdfReader(BytesIO(response.content))
        
        
        @lexy_transformer(name='pdf.embed_pages.text_only')
        def embed_pdf_pages(doc: Document) -> list[dict]:
        
            pdf = pdf_reader_from_url(doc.object_url)
            pages = []
        
            for page_num, page in enumerate(pdf.pages):
                page_text = page.extract_text()
                images = [im.name for im in page.images]
                p = {
                    'page_text': page_text,
                    'page_text_embedding': text_embeddings(page_text),
                    'page_meta': {
                        'page_num': page_num,
                        'page_text_length': len(page_text),
                        'images': images,
                        'n_images': len(images)
                    }
                }
                pages.append(p)
        
            return pages
        ```

    === "requirements.txt"
    
        ```plaintext
        # Extra package requirements for pipelines
        pypdf
        tree-sitter-languages
        ```



### Configuration

You can build and run Lexy using Docker Compose.

Here is an example of `docker-compose.yaml` and a `.env` file for a project using Lexy with Google Cloud Storage as the 
default storage service.

The example below uses the `latest` tag, which you can replace with a specific version if needed (e.g., `v0.0.2`). 
Images are built for each [release](https://github.com/lexy-ai/lexy/releases) and hosted on GitHub Container Registry. 
Available packages are [here](https://github.com/orgs/lexy-ai/packages?repo_name=lexy).

!!! tip 

    You can generate the `docker-compose.yaml` file below using the Lexy CLI. Run `lexy docker` on the command line  
    to create the file.

???+ note "Example configuration using Google Cloud Storage"

    === "docker-compose.yaml"
    
        ```yaml
        name: my-project
        
        services:
          lexyserver:
            image: ghcr.io/lexy-ai/lexy/lx-server:latest
            hostname: lexy_server
            depends_on:
              - db_postgres
            ports:
              - "9900:9900"
            env_file:
              - .env
            environment:
              - OPENAI_API_KEY=${OPENAI_API_KEY}
              - PIPELINE_DIR=/home/app/pipelines
              - GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/run/secrets/gcp_credentials
            volumes:
              - ${PIPELINE_DIR:-./pipelines}:/home/app/pipelines
            secrets:
              - gcp_credentials
        
          lexyworker:
            image: ghcr.io/lexy-ai/lexy/lx-worker:latest
            hostname: celeryworker
            depends_on:
              - lexyserver
              - queue
            restart: always
            env_file:
              - .env
            environment:
              - PIPELINE_DIR=/home/app/pipelines
            volumes:
              - ${PIPELINE_DIR:-./pipelines}:/home/app/pipelines
        
          db_postgres:
            image: ghcr.io/lexy-ai/lexy/lx-postgres:latest
            restart: always
            ports:
              - "5432:5432"
            volumes:
              - db-postgres:/var/lib/postgresql/data
        
          queue:
            image: rabbitmq:3.9.10-management
            restart: always
            ports:
              - "5672:5672"
              - "15672:15672"
        
          flower:
            image: mher/flower
            restart: always
            ports:
              - "5556:5555"
            command: celery --broker=amqp://guest:guest@queue:5672// flower -A lexy.main.celery --broker_api=http://guest:guest@queue:15672/api/vhost
            depends_on:
              - lexyserver
              - lexyworker
              - queue
            environment:
              - CELERY_BROKER_URL=amqp://guest:guest@queue:5672//
              - CELERY_RESULT_BACKEND=db+postgresql://postgres:postgres@db_postgres/lexy
              - CELERY_BROKER_API_URL=http://guest:guest@queue:15672/api/vhost
              - C_FORCE_ROOT=true
              - FLOWER_UNAUTHENTICATED_API=true
        
        volumes:
          db-postgres:
            driver: local
        
        secrets:
          gcp_credentials:
            file: ${GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS:-/dev/null}
        
        networks:
          default:
            name: lexy-net
            external: false
        ```

    === ".env"
    
        ```shell
        # Google Cloud Storage
        DEFAULT_STORAGE_SERVICE=gcs
        DEFAULT_STORAGE_BUCKET=your_gcs_bucket_name
        GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/path/to/your/service-account-credentials.json

        # OpenAI API key
        OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key
        ```


### Testing

You can run tests inside the `lexyserver` container to ensure that Lexy is working as expected. 

In the example project above, you first bring up your project's stack using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

Then use the following commands to run tests inside the running `lexyserver` container:

```bash 
docker compose exec -it lexyserver pytest lexy_tests
docker compose exec -it lexyserver pytest sdk-python
```

Or to run tests in a single command:

```bash
docker compose exec -it lexyserver sh -c "pytest lexy_tests && pytest sdk-python"
```

If instead you want to run tests inside a new `lexyserver` container, use the following command:

```bash
docker compose run -it --rm --no-deps lexyserver sh -c "pytest lexy_tests && pytest sdk-python"
```

## Lexy API

The Lexy server is a RESTful API that provides endpoints for storing and retrieving documents, applying 
transformations, and managing collections and indexes.

The API is documented using Swagger. You can access the Swagger UI at `http://localhost:9900/docs` when the Lexy 
server is running.

![lexy-swagger.png](assets%2Fimages%2Flexy-swagger.png)

## Python SDK

`lexy-py` is the Python SDK used to interact with the Lexy server.

The SDK provides a `LexyClient` class that you can use to interact with the Lexy server. Here's an example of how to list
collections using the Python SDK:

```python
from lexy_py import LexyClient

lx = LexyClient()
lx.list_collections()
```

For more information on how to use the Python SDK, see the [Python SDK reference](reference/lexy_py/client.md).
