README.md, before:

# Lexy

Welcome to Lexy!
 
## Development

### Clone the repo

```Shell
git clone https://github.com/lexy-ai/lexy.git
```

### Install dependencies

Python 3.11 or greater is required. 

```Shell
# create a virtualenv
python3 -m venv venv 
source venv/bin/activate

# install poetry
pip install poetry

# install dev dependencies and extras
poetry install --no-root --with test,docs -E "lexy_transformers"

# install lexy in editable mode
pip install -e .
pip install -e sdk-python

# initialize .env file
touch .env

# build docker images
docker-compose up --build -d
```

### Where to find services

| Service      | URL                        | Notes                                                         |
|--------------|----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| Lexy API     | http://localhost:9900/docs | Swagger API docs                                              |
| Flower       | http://localhost:5556      | Celery task monitor                                           |
| RabbitMQ     | http://localhost:15672     | Username: `guest`, Password: `guest`                          |
| Postgres     | http://localhost:5432      | Database: `lexy`, Username: `postgres`, Password: `postgres`  |
| Project docs | http://localhost:8000      | Run `make serve-docs`<br/>Username: `lexy`, Password: `guest` |


### PyCharm issues

If your virtualenv keeps getting bjorked by PyCharm, make sure that you're following the instructions above verbatim, 
and using `venv` instead of `.venv` for the path of your virtual environment.

Commit message:

Store and retrieve image documents from S3. Updates to client for uploading images, and to server file upload logic. New image examples notebook.

README.md, after:

# Lexy

Welcome to Lexy!
 
## Development

### Clone the repo

```Shell
git clone https://github.com/lexy-ai/lexy.git
```

### Install dependencies

Python 3.11 or greater is required. 

```Shell
# create a virtualenv
python3 -m venv venv 
source venv/bin/activate

# install poetry
pip install poetry

# install dev dependencies and extras
poetry install --no-root --with test,docs,dev -E "lexy_transformers"

# install lexy in editable mode
pip install -e .
pip install -e sdk-python

# initialize .env file
touch .env

# build docker images
docker-compose up --build -d
```

### Where to find services

| Service      | URL                        | Notes                                                         |
|--------------|----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| Lexy API     | http://localhost:9900/docs | Swagger API docs                                              |
| Flower       | http://localhost:5556      | Celery task monitor                                           |
| RabbitMQ     | http://localhost:15672     | Username: `guest`, Password: `guest`                          |
| Postgres     | http://localhost:5432      | Database: `lexy`, Username: `postgres`, Password: `postgres`  |
| Project docs | http://localhost:8000      | Run `make serve-docs`<br/>Username: `lexy`, Password: `guest` |

### Configuring AWS

In order to upload and store files to Lexy, you'll need to configure AWS. You can use `aws configure` (recommended) or 
put `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` in your `.env` file.

You'll also need to specify an S3 bucket for file storage (for which your AWS credentials should have full access). 
You can do so by adding `S3_BUCKET=<name-of-your-S3-bucket>` to your `.env` file, or by updating the value of 
`s3_bucket` in `lexy/core/config.py`.

### PyCharm issues

If your virtualenv keeps getting bjorked by PyCharm, make sure that you're following the instructions above verbatim, 
and using `venv` instead of `.venv` for the path of your virtual environment.
